I've got a pound of meat minced beef and
half a pound of pork sausage meat and
also a medium onion finely chopped in my
bowl here and I'm going to add all sorts
of other ingredients one is half a green
pepper that's very finely chopped the
other is a tablespoon of chopped parsley
two tablespoons of breadcrumbs and these
can be white or brown bread crumbs made
from a fresh loaf and then seasoning
will be half a teaspoon of dried mixed
herb a little bit of salt and some
freshly milled black pepper and then
just a dessert spoonful of tomato puree
now the next thing you do on this recipe
is really having just thrown everything
in the bowl is going with a large fork
and start to mix as thoroughly as
possible and to help you to bind the
mixture together I'm going to add a
beaten egg to help me to bind the
mixture together rather I'm going to add
a beaten egg and then just go on mixing
and mixing mixing until everything is
absolutely thoroughly combined and that
will take quite some time and you'll
probably lose patience like I do and
then go in with your hands which means
that you can quicken things up a lot and
so that's the basic mixture for our
meatballs and after the thorough mixing
the next thing you're going to do is
shape them and that's very very easy and
I'm going to shape one now and show you
you just take portions of the mixture
you'll want about 16 in all and just
roll them between the palms of your
hands like that and what could be easier
next they go into some seasoned flour
and just lightly coat them in seasoned
flour some people over do this and they
all break up all they need is a light
coating and then keep them on a plate
store them while you make the others on
a plate of flour and then they'll be
ready to cook
to cook them you start off by the same
theme that we've had all the way through
this program and that's browning you
Brown them in a couple of tablespoons of
olive oil until they're all nicely
browned like these then they all go into
a casserole and we're going to cook them
in a sauce and the sauce is ready on the
hob here and what I've got in my sauce
is an onion chopped onion and that's
been softened in oil the other half of
the green pepper and also a tin of
Italian tomatoes and some basil to
remember basil that we used last week
it's a lot of ingredients to remember
but don't worry because all the
ingredients are in the book along with
all the recipes part two of the cookery
course and also the recipe that you saw
in the beginning the birth cooking yawn
now there's the sauce next time you do
is you put a lid on this goes in a
higher up on gas mark 5 375 and they'll
take about 50 minutes to cook and then
you take the lid off and let them cook
for another 10 minutes for the sauce to
reduce and become thickened